you know how your partner likes their
coffee what love language they speak
and even their medical history but how
much do you know about their finances
chances are you and your better half are
among the 78 percent of people who would
rather share their full dating history
and
all of that drama and all of that
baggage that comes along with it
rather than to disclose your full
financial history and yet
research shows that your significant
other has a large
influence on a whole host of your
behaviors
understanding how they handle money is a
great way to prevent
strife and misunderstandings in fact
financial disagreements rank as the
strongest predictor of divorce
so my tip here is that if you want to
strengthen your relationship
it's time to talk about the money you
might be thinking
my partner and i don't need to talk my
partner takes care of the money or vice
versa but a 2018 study
of heterosexual couples show that in
these situations
the partner who takes on all of the
responsibility the one who manages
all of the financial tasks they become
more and more proficient in financial
management over time
but the other person the person who has
given up all of their financial
responsibilities
their financial management capabilities
decline over time
and what if something happens maybe you
break up maybe it doesn't work out or
god forbid maybe your spouse dies too
early
if the person who wasn't responsible for
the money management ends up on their
own
that person oftentimes struggles to
regain their financial skills
making it more and more difficult for
them to navigate the world alone
and 75 percent of the time it's the
women who outlive the men
for the partner who hasn't taken on the
money management role it's like
forgetting a foreign language
when you stop using it you lose some of
your ability to understand and
communicate in it but if you keep that
financial immersion going
so does your fluency being open about
your finances can be very scary
but it can also be very rewarding
experiments have shown that shared
vulnerability establishes a greater
sense of trust
cooperation and intimacy in
relationships
so to get you started i along with a
couple of colleagues
developed a list of 10 conversation
starters here are just three
number one what are your long-term
financial goals
what do you want to accomplish together
number two
how do you measure your financial
success is it a house with a white
picket fence
or is it having the ability to live
anywhere around the globe
number three what's the one thing you
wish your parents would have done
differently financially
as a university study found it's
important to answer these questions
together
because joint decision making making
decisions as a couple
often times results in taking fewer risk
that in turn can lead to higher savings
now
i'm sure you intuitively understand that
open
honest conversations with your better
half are beneficial and i understand
that it's difficult to get started
especially when talking about money but
a great first step
is just to put some time on the calendar
so that you two can have a nice
financial chat take out your phone right
now
set the calendar invite your future self
will thank you